improve IPv6 documentation (#20)
CESNET/cloud-platforms-docs: content/docs/how-to-guides/ipv6-instances.mdx

---
title: IPv6 Instances
---

IPv6 networking for virtual machines can be configured in two supported deployment modes. An instance can be created either as a dual-stack VM with both private IPv4 and public IPv6 connectivity, or as an IPv6-only VM.

In case of issues related to IPv6 connectivity or instance accessibility, refer to the [IPv6 Troubleshooting](../additional-information/ipv6-troubleshooting) documentation.

### Dual-stack Virtual Machine (IPv4 + IPv6)

> To enable both IPv4 and IPv6 connectivity, select **both** the internal IPv4 network and the `external-ipv6-general-public` network in the **Networks** section when launching a new instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable both IPv4 and IPv6 connectivity, select **first** the internal IPv4 network `internal-ipv4-general-private` and then add **second network port** using `external-ipv6-general-public` network in the **Networks** section when launching a new instance.
```

<Callout type="info" title="Example">
    ![](/img/openstack/networks/ipv6-ipv4-networks.png)
</Callout>

In this configuration, an IPv4 floating IP can also be associated with the instance if public IPv4 access is required.

### IPv6-only Virtual Machine

To create an IPv6-only virtual machine, select **only** the `external-ipv6-general-public` network in the **Networks** section when launching a new instance.

<Callout type="info" title="Example">
    ![](/img/openstack/networks/ipv6-only-network.png)
</Callout>

> To ensure metadata is available to the instance, enable **Configuration Drive** in the **Configuration** section, without it the VM may be **unreachable**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure metadata is available to the instance, you have to enable **Configuration Drive** in the **Configuration** section. Not enabling **Configuration Drive** result in VM server **unavailability** as network configuration is not applied over ipv6 stack.
```
